Publish/subscribe (#1776)
emqtt/emq-docs-cn: en_US/messaging/mqtt-shared-subscription.md

# Shared Subscription

EMQX implements the shared subscription feature of MQTT. A shared subscription is a subscription mode to implement load balancing among multiple subscribers. Clients can be divided into multiple subscription groups, and messages are still forwarded to all subscription groups, but only one client within each subscription group receives the message at a time. You can add a `$share` prefix to the original topic to enable shared subscriptions for a group of subscribers.

You can use client tools to try this messaging service in EMQX. This section introduces how to use the [MQTT X Client](https://mqttx.app/) and [MQTT X CLI](https://mqttx.app/cli) to simulate clients and try how messages are received through a shared subscription.

:::tip Prerequisites

- Knowledge about MQTT [Shared Subscription](./mqtt-concepts.md)
- Basic publishing and subscribing operations using [MQTT X](./publish-and-subscribe.md) 

:::

## Try Shared Subscription with MQTT X Client

> The following procedure demonstrates how to form groups for multiple subscribers and make them subscribe to the same topic. In this demonstration, you can create three subscribers `Subscriber1`, `Subscriber2` and `Subscriber3,` and divide them into groups `a` and `b`. Both groups subscribe to the topic `t/1`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following procedure demonstrates how to group multiple subscribers and make them subscribe to the same topic. In this demonstration, you can create three subscribers `Subscriber1`, `Subscriber2` and `Subscriber3,` and divide them into groups `a` and `b`. Both groups subscribe to the topic `t/1`. 
```

Reviewer: 这里其实还建了一个 demo connection，要不要说下这个 demo connection 的目的？

   In the **New Subscription** window:

   - Set the **Topic** to `$share/a/t/1` for `Subscribe1` and `Subscriber2`.
   - Set the **Topic** to `$share/b/t/1` for `Subscriber3`.

   In these example topics: 

   - The prefix `$share` indicates this is a shared subscription.
   - `{group}` can be a customized name.
   - `t/1` indicates the original topic name.

   Leave other settings as default. Click the **Confirm** button.

   <img src="./assets/New-shared-subscription.png" alt="New-shared-subscription" style="zoom:35%;" />

5. Click the connection `Demo` you created before. 

   - Send a message with the topic `t/1`. The clients `Subscriber1` and `Subscriber3` should receive the message. 

     <img src="./assets/Receive-message-shared-subscription1.png" alt="Receive-message-shared-subscription1" style="zoom:35%;" />

   - Send the same message again. The client `Subscriber2` and `Subscriber3` should receive the message.

     <img src="./assets/Receive-message-shared-subscription2.png" alt="Receive-message-shared-subscription2" style="zoom:35%;" />

:::tip

> When the message of the shared subscription is published, the EMQX broker forwards the message to different groups at the same time, but only one of the subscribers in the same group receives the message at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the message of the shared subscription is published, the EMQX forwards the message to different groups at the same time, but only one of the subscribers in the same group receives the message at a time.
```
